I want to create an HTML/CSS/JavaScript lesson worksheet for my a level computer science students (j277 ocr gcs ecompuer science spec). The lesson needs a specific structure and functionality. It should begin with a starter activity that either recaps the previous lesson or assesses current knowledge of the topic. This can also be an interactive activity. The worksheet should include various tasks covering all required content below.



Primary storage

Known as main memory or primary memory



It is volatile



Can be accessed directly by the CPU









Secondary storage

This type of storage cannot be read directly by the CPU.



It's non-volatile and much bigger than primary. 



Examples are Hard Disk, USB Flash Drive, SSD, CD









Random Access Memory

Primary Storage we can write to, also known as main memory.



All data in use and instructions currently running are stored here.



It is volatile.



Easily expandable//can add more if needed









RAM uses

Stores the parts of the OS / programs that are running…



Stores the data currently in use



… for access by the CPU









Increasing RAM - impact on performance

More instructions / programs / applications can run at the same time / be held in RAM



Open software faster / respond faster



More memory space for current programs



Run more memory intensive programs e.g. computer games / graphic rendering



reduces use of Virtual Memory



…..less use of hard drive which is slower to access









Other than RAM - other ways to improve computer performance

Increase processor clock speed (overclock)...



...Run more FE cycles per second



...Faster response



...Smoother actions



...Less likely to freeze



Add more cores



...Run more tasks simultaneously



...Better performance for programs that are programmed for multi-core systems



E.g. new computer games



Increase cache size



...Cache stores frequently used instructions / programs / data



....Can store more so increase access speed to more frequently used instructions / programs / data



New graphics card



...Can carry out more processes for CPU



...Can improve speed and quality of graphics



Change hard disk drive to SSD



...faster read / write speed









Read Only Memory

Cannot be changed.



Stores the boot program / bootstrap loader / BIOS



Non-volatile semiconductor primary memory



Contains the start-up instructions for the computer known as the BIOS









RAM vs ROM

ROM is non-volatile and RAM is volatile



RAM is easily expandable, ROM size is (usually) fixed for a given computer



Contents of RAM change frequently, contents of ROM never (hardly ever) change.









RAM vs Flash/Solid State memory

RAM is volatile // Flash memory is non-volatile



RAM is faster to access/store data than Flash memory // Flash memory is slower to access/store data than RAM



RAM stores currently running programs/instructions/data/OS // Flash memory stores files and software



RAM can be directly accessed by CPU // Flash data has to go to RAM before CPU









Volatile

Data is lost when computer is powered off, RAM is this type









Non-volatile

Data is retained when powered off, ROM/HDD/SSD is this type









BIOS

The startup instructions for a computer, stored in ROM.



It stands for Basic Input Output System









Virtual memory

Using the hard disk / secondary storage...



...Used as RAM / to store the contents of RAM / main memory...



...Needed when there isn't enough physical memory



Secondary/virtual storage has slow access speeds than Primary Memory (RAM)









Process

Any part of a program that is currently running, this will need to be in primary memory so the CPU can execute it







Swapping

Moving a process from RAM to virtual memory to make more room in RAM for a new process









Thrashing

Constantly swapping processes between RAM and virtual memory because there is not enough RAM. 



Causes slow performance.









Types of question could involve any of the below but I will leave it to your discretion to decide the most appropriate to make sure the lesson is engaging interesting interactive and educational. 

- Multiple Choice: Choose the correct answer from a list of options. Must not be too obvious

- True or False: Decide if a statement is correct or incorrect.

- Fill in the Blanks: Complete a sentence by adding a missing word or phrase.

- Matching: Connect items in one column to corresponding items in another.

- Labeling: Name the parts of a diagram, image, or map.

- Short Answer: Provide a brief written response.

- Sequencing: Arrange items in their correct order.

- Categorization: Group items based on shared features.

- Problem Solving: Find the solution to a given problem, often in maths or science.

- Analysis: Break down a topic to examine its parts and relationships.

- Evaluation/Critique: Make a judgment or form an opinion based on evidence.

- Synthesis/Creation: Generate new ideas or create something original.

- Compare and Contrast: Explain the similarities and differences between two or more things.

- Scenario-Based: Respond to a hypothetical real-life situation.

- Ranking/Prioritising: Arrange a list of items based on a specific criterion, such as importance, effectiveness, or preference.

- odd One Out: Identify which item in a group doesn't belong and explain the reasoning.

- Case Study Analysis: Read a short case study and answer questions about the situation, problems, and potential solutions.

- 

For multiple choice questions the options shouldn't make it too obvious what the correct answer is

The lesson must be engaging, interesting, interactive, and educational. It should include clear learning outcomes, functional drag-and-drop exercises, key takeaways, and end with a summary containing short or multiple-choice questions to check understanding where there should be 6 to 10 questions depending on amount of contetn.

Include simulations where appropriate to explain concepts, followed by reflection questions. throughout ach simualtion it needs to be very clear what is happening step by step and be very inutuive to use. Each task needs a reset button. Include practice exam questions as a final activity, with a predicted marks box for self-assessment. Students should only see mark schemes after making a reasonable attempt based on marks. Include regular quizzes and tests throughout. For math-based questions requiring calculations, provide a drawing canvas that works with stylus input and proper touch coordinates regardless of scaling, plus a clear canvas option. Include extension activities beyond the specification, with space for responses. Add real-world context and common mistakes sections. Students should earn achievements and badges that they can view. Include a videos placeholder section at the end of the worksheet. Achievement popups should appear little animations if suitable achievable through thorough task completion., accepting synonyms when appropriate rather than just keyword listing for fill in blanks and other exercises. Disable all pasting methods.



Instructions should be crystal clear, and the worksheet should be intuitive to navigate.

options for answers cant be in the same order as the question for any question as its too obivous

Ensure answer options are randomized for challenge, and accommodate synonyms and minor spelling mistakes in fill-in-blank and short answer questions. also for fill in the blank exercxises give options to choose from but give ots of choices adn opposites to make it trickier. Don’t give hints in inputs boxes because this have give away the answer too easily. hints throughout the worksheets is fine if they use hints. hints shouldnt just give the answer. sentence starters in input boxes is fine.

every page need a reset button if thwere is an actviity on it.

you need to make sure that as well as the little menu bar at the top there is also next and previous buttons.

You need to make sure that there are no contrast issues with the web page such as light text unlike background.

 for drag and drop activities It may be best to use a clicking approach i.e. clicking the matching areas instead of dragging.

Make task expectations absolutely clear.

Create a comprehensive detailed lesson plan before beginning to code.

Allow users to navigate through sections using arrows or a quick-access navbar above tasks, rather than displaying all content simultaneously.

As a seasoned programmer, create efficient, well-structured, and optimized code. Follow best practices and industry standards while implementing algorithms and logic. Test thoroughly to ensure proper functionality and requirements are met. Document code properly for future reference and maintenance.



⚡ Performance Improvements if appropriate:



DOM caching - stored frequently accessed elements

Event delegation - single listener for all quiz options

Debounced/throttled scroll and keyboard events

CSS transforms for animations (GPU accelerated)

Optimized section visibility - inactive sections hidden

RequestAnimationFrame for smooth particle effects

Reduced reflows by batching DOM operations

Added reduced motion support for accessibility

Require sufficient answer length before revealing mark schemes, without explicitly stating minimum length requirements.

Verify all task answers are marked accurately.

Event Delegation - Single event listeners handle multiple elements efficiently

Optimized Animations - Using CSS transforms and GPU acceleration

Lazy Loading - Sections only render when active



GPU Acceleration - Added will-change and transform: translateZ(0) for smooth animations

RequestAnimationFrame - Used for all animations

Optimized Observers - IntersectionObserver for efficient visibility detection



🎨 Visual Enhancements:

Modern Design Elements:



Glassmorphism effects with backdrop-filter blur

Animated gradient backgrounds on header

Enhanced color scheme with better contrast

Smooth cubic-bezier easing on all transitions

Ripple effects on button clicks

Gradient borders on achievement popups

Depth and shadows for better hierarchy



New Visual Features:



Particle effects achievements

Interactive area backgrounds with gradients

Enhanced hover states with transform effects

Modern card designs with animated top borders

Improved button styles with gradient backgrounds

Better visual feedback for all interactions



Responsive Improvements:



Mobile-optimized touch targets

Better scaling for different screen sizes

Improved navigation on mobile devices

Touch-friendly canvas drawing

Also include:

1. Enhanced Accessibility

Screen Reader Support: Add ARIA labels and roles for better accessibility

Keyboard Navigation: Full keyboard support for all interactive elements

High Contrast Mode: Toggle for students with visual impairments

Font Size Controls: Allow students to adjust text size

Dyslexia-Friendly Font: Option to switch to OpenDyslexic or similar

Mini-Games - only if adding educational value to topic

Particle Effects: Celebrations for achievements

Easter Eggs: Hidden bonuses for exploration

13. Mobile-Specific Enhancements

Gesture Controls: Swipe between sections

Haptic Feedback: Vibration for correct answers

never use f strings, .format, break, with open, list comprehension, try except in code snippets or expect them to be used in tasks

Consider all aspects of this prompt carefully.

make sure for questions where there are options dont put them in the roder of the question becasue its too obvious what the answer is.

i also want a sublte button on each page that a student can click on and it will open a feedback box where they can write a message if there is a bug or if they want to suggets a feature and then send an email with their feedabck to [millingtond@mgs.org](mailto:millingtond@mgs.org) but it doesnt say the email. it should know automatically which page they are on and the relevant bit of code that needs looking at.



simualtions need step by step next and prev buttons





The website needs to be responsive to mobile use and work well with touch and scalability. It's very important that's all parts of this prompt are considered and also the lesson content that I give you below all has to be covered one way or another.



In terms of visuals use modern approaches to make it very clear what the user has to do whether that is highlighting key points or key parts of the website or in simulations making it really easy to see which part of the simulation is currently active through highlighting over the means.



If there are any complicated simulations that you think are me need making separately to make them better then leave a placeholder and let me know.



It is very important that the achievement system is very robust and can't be manipulated at all



I'll also provide you with some example exam questions that the boys have to answer on this topic along with the mark scheme So you can use this to help you design questions even if it is a different scneario. it is obviously important that PGA practise on answering the type of questions they are going to be given in an exam. I have also attached the part of the specification but this lesson is supposed to cover.



fix bugs, imporve performance, add polish, improve visuals, check logic and structure of code. report back with exactly what you have done.



si system for units should be used unless specififed otherwiese.





make sure they're below CSS is inside the file in case I want to embed an iframe - 



                    iframe {

        width: 100%; /* Make it fill the container's width */

        height: 80vh; /* Adjust height as needed, vh is viewport height */

        border: none; /* Remove the border */

        display: block; /* Removes extra space below the element */

    }



UK english should be used. any file size calculations should use the si system. 



All activities need ID identifiers because this is The integration code is going to save to The server so each answer that The Student gives these to be identifiable.



create a detailed plan first do not provide any code yet until I give The go ahead

Scan the document and identify all interactive elements where a student can type an answer. This includes:

All <textarea> elements.

All <input type="text"> elements.

All <input type="number"> elements.

For every element you identify, you must ensure it has the following two attributes:

A unique id: If the element already has a unique id, do nothing. If it does not have an id, you must create a simple, descriptive, and unique ID for it (e.g., id="question_1", id="exam_answer_c").

A class of savable: If the element already has a class attribute, add savable to the list of existing classes (e.g., class="some-class savable"). If it does not have a class attribute, add class="savable".

dont use browser alert boxes, all feedback needs to be integrated in worksheet