see these instructions for how I want you to create A Quiz and then I'm going to give you A lot Of flash card information And I would like you to create A Big Quiz using math information.
// INSTRUCTIONS
// - Each question block must start with [START Q] on a new line.
// - The question text must start with "Question: ".
// - Each multiple-choice option must start with "O: " on a new line.
// - The correct answer must be specified with "A: " followed by the index of the correct option (starting from 0).
// - Do not include [END Q] markers, the parser handles this automatically.
[START Q]
Question: What does CPU stand for?
O: Central Processing Unit
O: Computer Personal Unit
O: Central Power Unit
O: Central Process Unit
A: 0
[START Q]
Question: Which of these is an example of volatile memory?
O: SSD
O: HDD
O: RAM
O: ROM
A: 2
flashcard info
Stored program concept
Instructions and data are both stored within memory during execution. 
Von Neumann architecture uses stored program concept - both the Instructions and data are stored in the same memory system. 
Fetch
The phase of the instruction cycle that retrieves an instruction from main memory
Decode
This phase of the instruction cycle determines what task the CPU must perform...
...Control unit looks up the instruction in it's instruction set
e.g. how to carry out a LOAD 5 instruction
Execute
The phase of the instruction cycle where the task is carried out...
...which could be an arithmetic, shift, logic or memory operation
Fetch-Execute Cycle
Also known as the instruction cycle, the complete process of retrieving an instruction from store, decoding it and carrying it out
FDE cycle - tasks
An instruction is fetched from memory
The instruction is then decoded
The decoded instruction is then executed so that the CPU performs continuously
The process is repeated
The program counter is incremented
The instruction is transferred to the MDR
The address of the instruction to be fetched is placed in the MAR
How the CPU and RAM work together
Instructions / programs(currently running) / data are stored in the RAM…
these are fetched from the RAM by the CPU / Processor...
… where the instructions are executed / instructions are processed / data is processed
Instruction
A single operation, one of these is executed each time the CPU performs the fetch-execute cycle
Main memory
Also known as RAM or Primary Storage, this is where data and instructions are stored in the Von Neumann architecture
Process
Computers take input, and produce output. This is what happens in between, which needs a CPU
Central Processing Unit
This component repeatedly fetches, decodes and executes instructions.
Often abbreviated to CPU
Architecture
The design of a computer, including the way its components are organised and the rules that make them work together. 
Von Neumann invented a type of this
Von Neumann Architecture
Basic design of most modern computers.
Consists of a Central Processing Unit (CPU), Memory (where both instructions and data are held), Input/Output (I/O), and a Control Unit.
More than one clock cycle may be required to execute a single instruction
The CPU can access instructions and read/write data at the same time
There is a common system bus (wire) for data and instruction transfer
Memory Address Register
A register that stores a single address/location where data will be read/written/accessed/fetched from/to memory
Memory Data Register
A register that stores the data/instruction that has been fetched/read from memory
OR
the data that is to be written to memory
Accumulator
A register used with the ALU...
...that stores the result of process/calculation
Program Counter
A register...
...that holds a single address...
...of the next instruction to be fetched/run during the fetch-execute cycle
Registers
The collection of tiny areas of extremely fast memory located in the CPU
...each with a specific purpose, where data or control information is stored temporarily.
...Examples are the MAR, MDR, PC and Accumulator
NOTE - Control unit/ALU are not registers
Cache
A small amount of fast memory built on the CPU
Stores commonly used instructions
....faster to access than RAM
Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU)
Perform mathematical operations in the CPU
E.g. "ADD 3 to Accumulator", binary shifts like "Shift left 2 bits"
E.g. logical comparisons such as "Compare Accumulator with location 30".
Bus
Any of three communication pathways between the CPU and RAM in the Von Neumann architecture
There is one for addresses, one for data and one for control signals
Control Unit
Component of the CPU which controls the flow of data around the CPU
...communication between the CPU and input and output devices,
...decodes and executes instructions
Not studied (1)
You haven't studied these terms yet.
Select this one
Clock
Synchronises all activity in the CPU // ensures that each instruction is processed at a consistent and predictable rate.
It regulates the speed at which instructions are completed
make sure that everything is covered in The quiz